An important skill
for all RC aircraft Flyers
to learn is how to maintain orientation
on your aircraft
just by its movement alone.  If it
hasn't happened to you already,
there will come a time when you
either accidentally or on purpose
fly your aircraft too far away where you
really can't tell
which is the front and which is the back.
When this occurs
beginners may panic and may
accidentally fly the aircraft
out of range and may lose the aircraft.  So how
can you tell the difference
which is the front and which the back so that you can safely bring it back to you?
Well, it is very simple.
Imagine this being the
quadcopter
at a point where you really can't tell
its orientation any more
You've accidentally flown too far away. So how do you fly it back to you safely?
Very simple, just give it a little
forward pitch to get some forward
movement. In this case you'll notice
from a distance that the dot the sky which
is your quadcopter
will be moving to the left. All you have
to do
when it's moving to the left is turn it
left to
start bringing it back toward you. Similarly
if the quadcopter is pointed to the right, and
you start to give it some forward
pitch, you should notice some right
movement off in the distance.
So in this case all you have to do is
turn to the right
to start bringing it back toward you. So
again
If it is moving left turn left.  If it is moving
right, turn right.
Very simple.
Now I will do some demonstration flights to show this.
We are going to fly the quadcopter to a distance
Where I can just barely see it or think that I
can barely see it with the camera.
We will demonstrate moving left and then
turn left, and then moving right
and turning right.
I will be flying at a distance that I can see the quad, but the camera will
probably have a hard time seeing it.
Right now I don't know what is the
orientation of the quadcopter.
So how do I bring it back to me?
I notice some slight movement to the left.
So all I need to do is turn left.
I keep turning left until the movement
stops or starts moving
in the opposite direction.
I'm still turning left, still turning left
until the movement stops.
And here it comes back to me.
Now it's moving right, so now I should turn right
to keep it coming toward me.
So let's do that again. I will send it back off
into the distance.
When I get there, I am going to give
some hard rudder to scramble
its orientation, so I don't know which direction it is pointing.
I am turning it, turning it, turning it.
Now I do not know
which way it is pointed.
Now I give it some forward pitch and I notice some right movement.
So all I need to do is turn right.
I am turning right, turning right, and now
here it comes toward me.
Let us do that again.
This time I will send it upwind.
I give it some forward pitch.
It is moving left, so I am turning left,
turning left.
And here it comes back to me.
Practice this many times.
Keep the quadcopter at a close distance when practicing.
It is an important skill to learn.
You will eventually be able to fly
greater distances than you normally
would.
Let us send it out again. Scrambling it again.
Give it some forward pitch,
it's moving to the right.
So I am turning right, turning right.
Now it is starting to move left.
So now I am turning left.
And here it comes back to me.
Let us do that again, and I will keep demonstrating.
I'm turning it. Now I do not know which way it is pointed.
I give it some forward pitch.
It is moving to the right, so I turn right.
I keep turning right, and here it comes
back to me.
I will demonstrate one more time with my V222 quadcopter.
I do not know which way it is pointed.
Forward pitch.
It is moving right, so I turn right.
And here it comes back to me.
Hope this has helped you.  If so, I would appreciate a YouTube thumbs up.
Good luck!